.TH SHGITTP 1 "2026" "shgittp v0.5.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
shgittp \- POSIX shell bootstrapper for bare-git dotfiles over SSH
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shgittp
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ user@ ] host
.RI [\-\- " ssh-opts" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B shgittp
deploys bare git repositories (typically dotfiles) to remote hosts via
SSH. It automates the Atlassian "bare repository" pattern for dotfile
management across machines.
.PP
If the remote host has
.BR git (1),
deployment is performed via agent-forwarded bare clone and checkout.
If git is absent, shgittp clones locally and streams a tarball over SSH
(bootstrap mode).
.PP
File conflicts are automatically detected and existing files are moved
to timestamped backups before checkout.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-repo " " \fIURL\fR
Source repository URL.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-branch " " \fINAME\fR
Branch to checkout (default: main).
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dir " " \fIDIR\fR
Bare git-dir location relative to $HOME (default: .dotfiles).
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-work " " \fIDIR\fR
Work tree directory (default: $HOME).
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-run " " \fICMD\fR
Command to execute in work tree after deployment.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Configuration file (default: $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/shgittp/config).
.TP
.B \-i
Open interactive SSH session after successful deployment.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress non-essential output.
.TP
.B \-\-full\-clone
Clone full git history instead of shallow (depth 1).
.TP
.B \-\-strict
Enable SSH strict host-key checking for remote git operations.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print deployment plan without executing.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is read from
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/shgittp/config
(typically ~/.config/shgittp/config). Format is standard INI.
Sections match hostnames or user@host strings.
.PP
Suffixed keys (e.g., repo_nvim, dir_nvim) define additional
deployment jobs on the same host. Jobs sharing a connection
string are deployed in parallel.
.PP
.B Precedence:
CLI flags > host section > [default] section > built-in values.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All deployments succeeded.
.TP
.B 1
One or more deployments failed, or invalid arguments.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B shgittp -r git@github.com:me/dots.git root@vps
Deploy to remote host with one-shot deployment.
.TP
.B shgittp -i dev@devbox
Deploy using config and open interactive shell after.
.TP
.B shgittp --dry-run my-server
Show deployment plan without executing.
.TP
.B shgittp -x "./setup.sh" -b minimal user@alpine-box
Deploy from minimal branch with post-deploy hook.
.TP
.B shgittp dev@endpoint -- -p 2222
Pass extra SSH options to remote connection.
.SH DEPLOYMENT MODES
.TP
.B Git mode
Remote has git: agent-forwarded bare clone + checkout directly on
target. Updates via fetch on subsequent runs.
.TP
.B Bootstrap mode
Remote lacks git: clone locally, pack into tarball, stream via SSH.
Once git is installed remotely, subsequent runs use git mode
automatically.
.PP
Both modes detect file conflicts and move existing files to timestamped
backups before checkout.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B Local
sh, ssh, git, tar
.TP
.B Remote
sh, ssh, tar (git optional)
.SH CONTRIBUTING
Contributions welcome at https://github.com/robchrob/shgittp
.SH LICENSE
MIT License
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR ssh (1),
.BR tar (1)
